content/docs/event-24th-april-2023.md, before:

---
title: 2023 Annual Conference - 24th April, Nottingham
description: Details of the 2023 meeting of the RSE Midlands group
date:
authorbox: false
sidebar: false
pager: false
weight: 3
---

Monday 24th April 2023 sees the second edition of the RSE Midlands conference. 
This year is hosted by the [Digital Research Service](https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/dts/researcher/digital-research-service/digital-research-service.aspx)
at the University of Nottingham’s beautiful [University Park Campus](https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/about/campuses/universityparkcampus.aspx), 
and sponsored by [Health Data Research UK](https://www.hdruk.ac.uk/) and by the 
[Society of Research Software Engineering](https://society-rse.org/).

This year’s conference is a chance to build community, meet new and old friends, and learn more about the incredible 
breadth of skills RSEs in the Midlands possess.

The morning has a focus on RSEs in Health Data (applicable to all RSEs, not just those working
in that field), with the afternoon on more general topics. 

## Agenda

|||
|--|--|
| 9:30 | Arrivals |
| 10:00 | Welcome from Nottingham (Sam Cox) |
|   | **RSEs in Health Data** |
| 10:30 | [Krishna Gokhale](https://www.birmingham.ac.uk/staff/profiles/applied-health/gokhale-krishna.aspx) (HDR and Birmingham) - __'Dexter - platform for Automated Epidemiology'__ |
| 11:15 | Refreshment break |
| 11:30 | Tom Giles (Nottingham) - __'Building an Open Ecosystem for Data Discovery though Academic and Industrial Collaboration'__|
| 12:15 | Round table |
| 12:30 | Photo |
| 12:45 | Lunch |
|   | **RSE** |
| 13:45 | [Adam Seed (ENSEK)](https://www.linkedin.com/in/adam-seed-12450618/) - __'ENSEK - An Enterprise SaaS company'__ |
| 14:15 | Lightning talks |
| 14:45 | Refreshments |
| 15:00 | Round table |
| 15:30 | Wrap up |
| 16:00 | Close |

We’d love to see you then. Book at [https://pretix.eu/rsemidlands/2023/](https://pretix.eu/rsemidlands/2023/). 

Thank you to all our wonderful lightning talk volunteers!

We don’t want finances to be a barrier to any attendees, and so the Society of Research Software Engineering has 
generously offered support with any travel expenses. Speak to us if you would like to take advantage of this help.

## Location and travel

### Location
The conference will be held in Room E06, Monica Partridge Building, University Park Campus. 
This is on the top floor. Stairs and lifts are available, and the building is fully accessible.

[Google Maps](https://www.google.co.uk/maps/place/Monica+Partridge+Building/@52.9388984,-1.1983711,19z/data=!4m6!3m5!1s0x4879c3e2d4c8dc83:0xb48fa08fd229d9a8!8m2!3d52.9391044!4d-1.1980617!16s%2Fg%2F11grnvrdxl)


### Travel

The University provides information for travel to University Park Campus: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/about/visitorinformation/mapsanddirections/universityparkcampus.aspx

#### Train
If you're travelling by train, travel to Nottingham Rail Station, and then grab a tram (heading to Toton Lane). 
Trams depart from the tram stop above the rail station, accessible from both the main rail station entrance and 
from the pedestrian bridge connecting platforms. Alight at "University of Nottingham" after approximately 10 minutes. The venue is a 10-15 minute walk (uphill, sorry!).

#### Car
If travelling by car, the closest public (pay and display) car park is 
[here](https://www.google.co.uk/maps/place/Main+Visitor+Car+Park/@52.940365,-1.1948261,299m/data=!3m1!1e3!4m6!3m5!1s0x4879c208ded048ed:0x19acb9ab0140e036!8m2!3d52.9407657!4d-1.1943649!16s%2Fg%2F11sb7cb_9h), 
a few minutes' walk from the venue. 
You might also want to consider using the Park and Ride at Toton Lane (close to the M1). This provides free parking, and a frequent (not free) tram to University of Nottingham.


<!--more-->

Commit message:

Update the 2023 event page to add past tense, and flag a future blog post.

content/docs/event-24th-april-2023.md, after:

---
title: 2023 Annual Conference - 24th April, Nottingham
description: Details of the 2023 meeting of the RSE Midlands group
date:
authorbox: false
sidebar: false
pager: false
weight: 3
---

Monday 24th April 2023 saw the second edition of the RSE Midlands conference. 
This year was hosted by the [Digital Research Service](https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/dts/researcher/digital-research-service/digital-research-service.aspx)
at the University of Nottingham’s beautiful [University Park Campus](https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/about/campuses/universityparkcampus.aspx), 
and sponsored by [Health Data Research UK](https://www.hdruk.ac.uk/) and by the 
[Society of Research Software Engineering](https://society-rse.org/).

This year’s conference was a chance to build community, meet new and old friends, and learn more about the incredible 
breadth of skills RSEs in the Midlands possess.

The morning had a focus on RSEs in Health Data (applicable to all RSEs, not just those working
in that field), with the afternoon on more general topics. 

Below you will find the arrangements for the day. Please look out for a blog post in
the near future, summarising the day and looking forward to the next one!

## Agenda

|||
|--|--|
| 9:30 | Arrivals |
| 10:00 | Welcome from Nottingham (Sam Cox) |
|   | **RSEs in Health Data** |
| 10:30 | [Krishna Gokhale](https://www.birmingham.ac.uk/staff/profiles/applied-health/gokhale-krishna.aspx) (HDR and Birmingham) - __'Dexter - platform for Automated Epidemiology'__ |
| 11:15 | Refreshment break |
| 11:30 | Tom Giles (Nottingham) - __'Building an Open Ecosystem for Data Discovery though Academic and Industrial Collaboration'__|
| 12:15 | Round table |
| 12:30 | Photo |
| 12:45 | Lunch |
|   | **RSE** |
| 13:45 | [Adam Seed (ENSEK)](https://www.linkedin.com/in/adam-seed-12450618/) - __'ENSEK - An Enterprise SaaS company'__ |
| 14:15 | Lightning talks |
| 14:45 | Refreshments |
| 15:00 | Round table |
| 15:30 | Wrap up |
| 16:00 | Close |

We’d love to see you then. Book at [https://pretix.eu/rsemidlands/2023/](https://pretix.eu/rsemidlands/2023/). 

Thank you to all our wonderful lightning talk volunteers!

We don’t want finances to be a barrier to any attendees, and so the Society of Research Software Engineering has 
generously offered support with any travel expenses. Speak to us if you would like to take advantage of this help.

## Location and travel

### Location
The conference was be held in Room E06, Monica Partridge Building, University Park Campus. 
This is on the top floor. Stairs and lifts are available, and the building is fully accessible.

[Google Maps](https://www.google.co.uk/maps/place/Monica+Partridge+Building/@52.9388984,-1.1983711,19z/data=!4m6!3m5!1s0x4879c3e2d4c8dc83:0xb48fa08fd229d9a8!8m2!3d52.9391044!4d-1.1980617!16s%2Fg%2F11grnvrdxl)


### Travel

The University provides information for travel to University Park Campus: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/about/visitorinformation/mapsanddirections/universityparkcampus.aspx

#### Train
If you're travelling by train, travel to Nottingham Rail Station, and then grab a tram (heading to Toton Lane). 
Trams depart from the tram stop above the rail station, accessible from both the main rail station entrance and 
from the pedestrian bridge connecting platforms. Alight at "University of Nottingham" after approximately 10 minutes. The venue is a 10-15 minute walk (uphill, sorry!).

#### Car
If travelling by car, the closest public (pay and display) car park is 
[here](https://www.google.co.uk/maps/place/Main+Visitor+Car+Park/@52.940365,-1.1948261,299m/data=!3m1!1e3!4m6!3m5!1s0x4879c208ded048ed:0x19acb9ab0140e036!8m2!3d52.9407657!4d-1.1943649!16s%2Fg%2F11sb7cb_9h), 
a few minutes' walk from the venue. 
You might also want to consider using the Park and Ride at Toton Lane (close to the M1). This provides free parking, and a frequent (not free) tram to University of Nottingham.


<!--more-->
